{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf190
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\froman\fcharset0 Times-Roman;\f2\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red255\green255\blue255;\red78\green78\blue78;\red82\green0\blue135;
\red111\green71\blue148;\red78\green78\blue78;}
{\*\listtable{\list\listtemplateid1\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid1\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid2\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid3\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid4\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listname ;}\listid1}
{\list\listtemplateid2\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid101\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid102\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid103\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid104\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2880\lin2880 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid105\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li3600\lin3600 }{\listname ;}\listid2}
{\list\listtemplateid3\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid201\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid202\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid203\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li2160\lin2160 }{\listname ;}\listid3}
{\list\listtemplateid4\listhybrid{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{disc\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid301\'01\uc0\u8226 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li720\lin720 }{\listlevel\levelnfc23\levelnfcn23\leveljc0\leveljcn0\levelfollow0\levelstartat1\levelspace360\levelindent0{\*\levelmarker \{hyphen\}}{\leveltext\leveltemplateid302\'01\uc0\u8259 ;}{\levelnumbers;}\fi-360\li1440\lin1440 }{\listname ;}\listid4}}
{\*\listoverridetable{\listoverride\listid1\listoverridecount0\ls1}{\listoverride\listid2\listoverridecount0\ls2}{\listoverride\listid3\listoverridecount0\ls3}{\listoverride\listid4\listoverridecount0\ls4}}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww13040\viewh14320\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls1\ilvl0
\f0\fs24 \cf0 \cb2 {\listtext	\'95	}Project description including background, challenge/problem to address, and impact\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1
\fs28 \cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}had addresses, but no geolocations -> had to geocode (used geopy)\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls1\ilvl2\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}needed to take this data and reformat it into a format that I could use (typically json or csv)\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\pardeftab720\li2880\fi-2880
\ls1\ilvl3\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}wrote a couple of scripts to bypass locations that google wasn\'92t able to geocode\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}exported it to a csv\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls1\ilvl1\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}limit on views for google maps \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls1\ilvl2\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}looked for an alternative (twitter)\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}ended up going with mapquest since it allows unlimited calling\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\pardeftab720\li2880\fi-2880
\ls1\ilvl3\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}occasionally may not load a map - no real way around this since it is against the Terms of Service to save the images - request may just not be processed fast enough\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\pardeftab720
\cf3 \
\'97\'97\'97\'97\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls2\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}CUTDDV (be sure to explain about each one, and when you list data specify datatypes)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls2\ilvl1
\fs28 \cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}context\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls2\ilvl2\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\f1 I combined OSHA\'92s ({\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.osha.gov/"}}{\fldrslt 
\f2\b\fs24 \cf4 Occupational Safety and Health Administration}}) yearly reports of all fatalities and catastrophes that have occurred in workplaces in the US since 2009. The reports dictate the date of the incident, a brief description of the incident, where it occurred (location and name of workplace), as well as its classification.\'a0No visualization currently exists of this data, and I was really curious to see what was essentially hidden away in these files. I actually came across this data a while ago, but didn\'92t really have all of the skill that I needed to effectively display the data at that time. This semester I learned how to manipulate and process data in python, which allowed me to do things such as sorting by state and geocoding the locations for the maps.
\f0 \
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls2\ilvl1\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}user\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls2\ilvl2\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}While this visualization is certainly something that OSHA could use, I realize that a lot of the information in it is a bit shallow. I\'92m displaying all of the data provided, and actually a bit more since I geocoded the locations. That said, this visualization would be good for anyone who is interested in the topic and likes to explore. It\'92s definitely a numbers driven graphic, but much can be gleaned from it depending on the selected dates and/or states.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls2\ilvl1\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}tasks\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls2\ilvl2\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Given the nature of this data, I really wanted to create something that tied all of the data together. While I\'92ve created charts like this before, I\'92ve never created a visualization with so many pieces that work together. My goal was to create something seamless.\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls2\ilvl1\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}data\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls2\ilvl2\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Dataset - Raw data came in the form of six .csv files from {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://www.google.com/url?q=https%3A%2F%2Fwww.osha.gov%2Fdep%2Ffatcat%2Fdep_fatcat_archive.html&sa=D&sntz=1&usg=AFrqEzfdTgu5SIL-NmRSYbQqDNJU3nNyOQ"}}{\fldrslt 
\f1 \cf5 https://www.osha.gov/dep/fatcat/dep_fatcat_archive.html}}
\f1 \cf5 \
\ls2\ilvl2
\f0 \cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Data Model (screenshot of script)\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\pardeftab720\li2880\fi-2880
\ls2\ilvl3\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}I wrote scripts to geocode the original data and re-export all of this data to a csv.\
\pard\tx3100\tx3600\pardeftab720\li3600\fi-3600
\ls2\ilvl4\cf6 \cb1 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}used a library called geopy to easily geocode all of the addresses\
\ls2\ilvl4\cf3 \cb2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}also had to do a bit of math (string -> float -> string)\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls2\ilvl1\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}displays/visualization (include possibilities section here)\
	
\b\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 Choropleth State Map\
\ls2\ilvl1
\b0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Combines spatial coordinates & 1D variable (possibly temporal)\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl2
\fs28 \cf3 \cb2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}S
\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 patial coordinates are depicted via the map aspect that the 1D variable is displayed in conjunction with.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}The 1D variable in this instance is 
\i continuous
\i0  and measures a scale\
\pard\tx2380\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2880\fi-2880\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl3
\fs28 \cf3 \cb2 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}
\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 This choropleth map colors
\b  
\b0 each state using a gradient color scheme in accordance with the number of OSHA reported incidents in the state during the given time period.
\fs28 \cf3 \cb2 \
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\li2160\fi-2160\pardirnatural
\ls2\ilvl2
\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}This visualization also incorporates temporal data if filtered using area charts below\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf3 \cb2 	
\b\fs24 \cf0 \cb1 Area Maps by Year
\b0 \
	- Temporal + 1D\
		- This measures the 
\i number
\i0  (ordinal) of OSHA reported incidents in the U.S. over a span of 
\i time 
\i0 (time could be depicted as an interval variable, but as a specific type of interval, it is assigned to the temporal category). The total span of time represented in this visualization spans from June of 2009 until March of 2014.\
	
\b Miniature Maps in Table
\b0 \
	- Spatial\
		- These maps are about spatially based as a visualization can be. The location data depicted in these maps is in conjunction with other data, as well, but if looking at these maps on their own, they solely depict spatial data.\
\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural
\cf0 \ul \ulc0 Tools used\ulnone \
\
- Crossfilter.js (a D3.js charting library) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://square.github.io/crossfilter/"}}{\fldrslt http://square.github.io/crossfilter/}}\
- DataTables (jQuery plugin) {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://datatables.net/"}}{\fldrslt https://datatables.net/}}\
- Mapquest Static Maps API {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "https://developer.mapquest.com/web/products/dev-services/static-maps-ws"}}{\fldrslt https://developer.mapquest.com/web/products/dev-services/static-maps-ws}}\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs28 \cf3 \cb2 \
\ul Design Process\ulnone \
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf0 	\'95	Your exploration of possible visualizations, with discussion of your thought process\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls3\ilvl1
\fs28 \cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}I immediately knew that date, location, and the relationship between the two were the most important things that I needed to showcase. I thought about creating an interactive map that incorporated clustering in place of where the choropleth map is, but decided against it since it would have been incredibly busy and not nearly as succinct a representation as the choropleth is.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}pictures from workbook on ideas\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}Server-side versus Client-side: I first thought about creating this as a Django project since it would have allowed me to easily generate as many different views as I wanted; however, I ended up deciding to develop this as a solely javascript based project for a number of reasons.\
\pard\tx1660\tx2160\pardeftab720\li2160\fi-2160
\ls3\ilvl2\cf3 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}1) Though creating a server-side project would have allowed me to give each incident its own page, I realized that this wasn\'92t really necessary. Most descriptions are very short and adding an interactive map of the incident location would not have added much to the exploration of the data. \
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}2) Django projects are notoriously hard to deploy, and free hosting sites often cap the number of rows you\'92re allowed to have in your database. Upon looking into this, I would have exceeded the limit.\
{\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}3) It\'92s much easier to pull in data from a static file using Crossfilter than it would have been from a relational database.\
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\pardeftab720
\cf3 \
Colors - I investigated using OSHA\'92s colors, but chose not to since they are predominantly red. While I think that red would have made a statement, I didn\'92t think it an appropriate color to use given the subject matter of the visualization. The purple I chose still shows the contrast well and comes relatively connotation free.\
\
Issues - \
- Creating the miniature maps in and of themselves via Google\'92s static map API was actually pretty easy; however, they limit you to 2,500 calls per day. This unfortunately doesn\'92t last you very long when you have roughly 4,500 entries in your data. I then spent some time looking for alternatives with very little luck, so I posed my question to the data viz community via twitter. And though none of those suggestions proved to be that fruitful, they did eventually lead me to the Mapquest static map API, which allows an unlimited number of calls.\
\
\pard\tx220\tx720\pardeftab720\li720\fi-720
\ls4\ilvl0
\fs24 \cf0 {\listtext	\'95	}Your Final Product\'a0\
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440
\ls4\ilvl1\cf0 {\listtext	\uc0\u8259 	}link to my project\
\pard\tx720\pardeftab720

\fs28 \cf3 \
\
}